



"You enter a magical cave to find seven orbs. A wizard tells you that each orb is colored on the inside, and that four or more of the orbs have the same color. Also, when two orbs of the same color are brought into contact with each other, they will glow, revealing the color. If two orbs touch but have different color, nothing happens. The orbs are heavy, so you can only touch two at a time. What is the least number of comparisons needed to find one of the orbs of the majority color?,"
"A group of airplanes is based on a small island. The tank of each plane holds just enough fuel to take it halfway around the world. Any desired amount of fuel can be transferred from the tank of one plane to the tank of another while the planes are in flight. The only source of fuel is on the island, and it is assumed that there is no time lost in refueling either in the air or on the ground. What is the smallest number of planes that will ensure the flight of one plane around the world on a great circle, assuming that the planes have the same constant speed (relative to the ground) and rate of fuel consumption, and that all planes return safely to their island base?,"
"When you roll two six-sided fair dice, the total number of dots displayed can be anything from 2 to 12. However, some sums are more likely than others. Now suppose you have two six-sided fair dice, with no dots on any of the faces (they are blank). Armed with only a marker pen and your puzzle-solving prowess, how can you draw dots on the dice so that each possible sum will appear with equal probability?,"
"Find two different temperatures whose Celcius and Fahrenheit values are reverses of each other (when rounded to the nearest degree). For example 12 and 21 are reverses of each other.,"
"As you enter the chamber, your eyes immediately fall on the four chests. One is made of solid gold, another out of silver, the third out of brick and the last out of wood. Legend states that one of the four boxes contains a priceless treasure, however all the others are filled with angry scorpions (also known as scorpions). Luckily, attached to each box is a sign. Unluckily, you do not know which signs are true. The signs read:Gold box: ""If the treasure is in the brick box, then the sign on the wood box is false.""Silver box: ""The treasure is in either the brick box or the wood box.""Brick box: ""Only one of these four signs is true.""Wood box: ""The signs on the metal boxes are either both true or both false.""Which box should you open?,"
"In a certain condominium community, 2/3 of all the women are married (to men) and 3/5 of all the men are married (to women). What fraction of the entire condominium community is married?,"
"Find a number consisting of 9 digits in which each of the digits from 1 to 9 appears exactly once. This number should satisfy the following requirements: The number should be divisible by 9. If the most right digit is removed, the remaining number should be divisible by 8. If then again the most right digit is removed, the remaining number should be divisible by 7. etc. until the last remaining number of one digit which should be divisible by 1,"
"In a village of 800 women, 3% wear one earing. Of the remaining 97%, half wear two earrings and half wear none. How many earrings are worn?,"
"You and a friend have just discovered what appears to be a very valuable old coin. To determine who gets to keep the treasure, you decide to flip the coin. However, as your buddy points out, you do not know if the coin is fair -- that is, it might be more likely to land heads up than tails up, or the opposite. How could you use this coin to give you and your friend an equal probability of winning?,"
"Two friends, Sam and Lloyd, play the following game with nine ping-pong balls, numbered 1 to 9. Each boy, on their turn, takes a ball (without replacement). The winner of the game is the first one to obtain 3 balls that sum to 15. Does either player have a winning strategy in this game?,"
"I am thinking of a five digit number. If you were to put a ""1"" at the end of the number you would get a six digit number which is three times the six digit number you get by placing a ""1"" at the front of my number. What number am I thinking of?,"
"Back in the days of yore, five small towns decided they wanted to build roads connecting each pair of towns. While the towns had plenty of money to build roads as long as they wished, it was very important that the roads not intersect with each other (as stop signs had not yet been invented). Also, tunnels and bridges were not allowed. Is it possible for each of these town to build a road to each of the four other towns without creating any intersections?,"
"With the digits 1 up to 9, you must make 100, using the following rules: Each digit must be used exactly once. The only allowed operation is addition. Two single digits may be combined to form a number (so, for example, 2 and 4 may be combined to 24 or 42). Two single digits may be combined to form a fraction (so, for example, 2 and 4 may be combined to 2/4 or 4/2)."